WE'RE BACK WITH NEW JERSEY
SENATOR AND DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN HOPEFUL
CORY BOOKER.
LET'S TALK ABOUT SOME SPECIFIC
POLICIES THAT HAVE BEEN THROWN
OUT BY THE NEW DEMOCRATS IN
CONGRESS AND BY SOME OF THE
PEOPLE--
>> I CAN JUST SAY ONE THING
BECAUSE THIS NEWS CAME OUT ABOUT
PAUL MANAFORT, AND I'M REALLY
TICKED OFF ABOUT THIS.
>> Stephen: YESTERDAY,
THURSDAY.
>> YES, YESTERDAY CAME OUT--
WELL, ONE OF MY FRIENDS SAYS WE
HAVE A CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
THAT TREATS YOU BETTER IF YOU'RE
RICH AND GUILTY THAN IF YOU'RE
POOR AND INNOCENT.
AND THERE ARE PEOPLE FROM
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE MINE IN
AMERICA WHO GET CONVICTIONS FOR
DOING THINGS THAT TWO OF THE
LAST THREE PRESIDENTS ADMITTED
TO DOING.
WE ARE A NATION RIGHT NOW THAT
CHURNS INTO OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM THE MOST VULNERABLE
PEOPLE.
YOU CAN TELL A LOT ABOUT A
COUNTRY BY WHO THEY INCARCERATE.
IN TURKEY, THEY'RE INCARCERATING
THE MEDIA.
BE CAREFUL WHEN YOU TRAVEL
THERE, SIR.
BUT IN OUR COUNTRY, WE PREY UPON
THE MOST VULNERABLE CITIZENS IN
OUR NATION-- POOR FOLKS,
MENTALLY ILL FOLKS, ADDICTED
FOLKS, AND OVERWHELMINGLY BRACK
BLACKAND BROWN FOLKS?
>> Stephen: YOU WERE SHOCKED
THAT HE GOT ONLY FOUR YEARS.
>> NO, CRIMINAL JUSTICE CAN'T
SHOCK ME ANYMORE.
>> Stephen: EVEN THOUGH THE
MUELLER TEAM SAID, 19-24, THEY
SAID HE WAS IRREDEEMABLE.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE IN
IRREDEEMABLE --
>> Stephen: THEY SAID A HIGH
RISK OF RECIDIVISM.
THAT HE IS A HARDEN CRIMINAL.
>> YES, AND HE IS SOMEBODY THAT
DONE DTHINGS THAT UNDERMINED
THIS INVESTIGATION.
SO EVERYBODY-- THAT'S SO
DELEGITIMIZES OUR CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
THERE ARE PEOPLE IN PRISON RIGHT
NEW-- I HAD A GUY THAT WENT WITH
ME TO THE STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS, THE LEGISLATION I
WORKED ON WITH OTHER SENATORS,
LIBERATED, WHO WAS IN JAIL FOR
LIFE FOR BEING IN POSSESSION OF
CRACK COCAINE THAT WEIGHED LESS
THAN A BASEBALL AIR, LIFE
SENTENCE.
AND HERE IS A GUY THAT BETRAYED
OUR NATION, THAT THE PROSECUTORS
SAID-- THAT THE SENTENCES
GUIDELINES SAID OVER 19 YEARS,
AND HE'S GETTING OUT WITH A SLAP
ON THE WRIST.
WHAT DOES THAT SAY TO PEOPLE IN
THE COMMUNITIES LIKE MINE THAT,
THIS IS THE KIND OF INJUSTICE.
WE SAY THE WE'RE THE LAND OF THE
THREE, BUT ONE OUT OF EVERY
THREE INCARCERATED WOMEN ON THE
PLANET EARTH ARE HERE IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
WHICH WOMEN?
THE MOST VULNERABLE.
SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL AASSAULT.
LOW-INCOME FOLKS.
OVERWHELMINGLY THE MAJORITY OF
WOMEN WE INCARCERATE ARE LOW
INCOME.
THIS IS A CANCER ON THE SOUL OF
OUR COUNTRY.
WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY TO ME IS
JUST YET ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THE
WORK WE HAVE TO DO.
WE SWEAR-- I HAVE THING, BEFORE
YOU TELL ME ABOUT YOUR RELIGION,
FIRST SHOW IT TO ME IN HOW YOU
TREAT OTHER PEOPLE.
PEOPLE.
( APPLAUSE )
WE HAVE A CIVIC GOSPEL.
WE HAVE A CIVIC GOSPEL THAT WE
ALL SWEAR AN OATH TO IN THIS
COUNTRY.
WE SWEAR AN OATH THAT WE WILL BE
A NATION OF LIBERTY AND JUSTICE
FOR ALL.
THAT IS NOT TRUE.
AND WE NEED TO CHANGE THAT IN
THIS COUNTRY.
AND THAT'S WHY I INTRODUCED
LEGISLATION THIS WEEK TO SAY,
OKAY, WE DID THE FIRST STEP ACT,
WHICH IS A GOOD PROGRESS.
BUT NOW IT'S TIME WE DO THE NEXT
STEP ACT.
BECAUSE JUST THINK ABOUT THE
PROBLEMS WE TALK ABOUT.
YOU TALK ABOUT OTHER ISSUES.
WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH OUR
CHILDREN, WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH
OUR INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE ARE BUILDING A NEW PRISON IN
THIS COUNTRY EVERY 10 DAYS FROM
THE TIME I WAS IN LAW SCHOOL TO
THE TIME I WAS MAYOR OF THE CITY
OF NEWARK, WHILE OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE WAS CRUMB BLIRNG
WE WERE BUILDING OUT THE BIGGEST
INFRASTRUCTURE ON THE PLANET
EARTH FOR INCARCERATING PEOPLE.
THINK ABOUT THIS-- ONCE YOU GET
AN INDICTMENT OR A CONVICTION
FOR DOING THINGS THAT NOW
SENATORS ADMIT TO DOING-- "OH, I
SMOKED MARIJUANA"-- THERE WERE
MORE MARIJUANA POSSESSION
ARRESTS IN 2017 THAN ALL THE
VIOLENT CRIMES.
AND THOSE PEOPLE CAN'T GET A
JOB, CAN'T GET A BUSINESS
LICENSE.
IN SOME STATES THEY CAN'T VOTE.
THEY HAVE THEIR CITIZEN RIGHTS
RIPPED AWAY FROM THEM.
THIS IS A SYSTEM IF AMERICA'S
IN-CARERATION RATE WAS THE SAME
AS OTHER COUNTRIES WE WOULD HAVE
20% LESS POVERTY.
THESE ARE THE KIND OF
SELF-INFLICTED WOUNDS BY HAVING
A HEALTH CARE SYSTEM THAT TREATS
PEOPLE AFTER THEY GET SICK AS
OPPOSED TO PREVENTSIVE CARE AND
WELLNESS AND EARLY INTERVENTION.
WE SEEM TO BE A SOCIETY THAT
WANTS TO SAVE SO MUCH TAXPAYER
DOLLARS AFTER PEOPLE ARE BROKEN
INSTEAD OF MAKING SMART,
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS TO EMPOWER
OUR COUNTRY TO SUCCEED.
AGAIN, THAT'S ANOTHER REASON I'M
FIGHTING TO LEAD THIS NATION.
>> Jon: SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE.
SENATOR CORY BOOKER, EVERYBODY.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH THE
STARS OF COMEDY CENTRAL'S
"CORPORATE," MATT INGEBRETSON
AND JAKE WEISMAN.